# July 2024

## 7/1/24

### Worked on

- Learned about the difference in Golden images
- Practiced fronted quiz questions using www.greatfrontend.com

### Articles

#### DevOps is over hyped, too hard, and people are going back to the basics

*URL: https://matduggan.com/a-eulogy-for-devops/?utm_source=tldrdevops*

> Having lots of mandatory technical employees they couldn't easily replace was a bummer
> Recruitment was hard and expensive.
> Sales couldn't easily inject whatever last-minute deal requirement they had into the release cycle since that was often set it stone.
> It provided an amazing opportunity for SaaS vendors to inject themselves into the process by offloading complexity into their stack so they pushed it hard.
> The change also emphasized the strengths of cloud platforms at the time when they were starting to gobble market share. You didn't need lots of discipline, just allocate more servers.
> Money was (effectively) free so it was better to increase speed regardless of monthly bills.
> Developers were understandably frustrated that minor changes could take weeks to get out the door while they were being blamed for customer complaints.

**DevOps in practice**

> Development makes a branch in git and adds a feature, fix, change, etc.
> They open up a PR and then someone else on that team looks at it, sees it passes their internal tests, approves it and then it gets merged into main. This is effectively the only safety step, relying on the reviewer to have perfect knowledge of all systems.
> This triggers a webhook to the CI/CD system which starts the build (often of an entire container with this code inside) and then once the container is built, it's pushed to a container registry.
> The CD system tells the servers that the new release exists, often through a Kubernetes deployment or pushing a new version of an internal package or using the internal CLI of the cloud providers specific "run a container as a service" platform. It then monitors and tells you about the success or failure of that deployment.
> Finally there are release-aware metrics which allow that same team, who is on-call for their application, to see if something has changed since they released it. Is latency up, error count up, etc. This is often just a line in a graph saying this was old and this is new.
> Depending on the system, this can either be something where every time the container is deployed it is on brand-new VMs or it is using some system like Kubernetes to deploy "the right number" of containers.

Containers really helped DevOps because it fixed the problem of "it works on my machine but not on yours"

DevOps aimed to unify development and operations teams, streamlining deployments to improve software delivery. However, it often led to inefficiencies and complexities, as organizations struggled with the practical challenges of communication, coordination, and maintaining consistency across environments. As a result, many teams now seek simpler, more stable solutions, focusing on practicality and genuine needs over rapid transformation and unnecessary complexity.

---

## 7/2/24

### Worked on

- Navigating between different applications using a cookie as the authentication token

### Articles 

#### Internet Bloat

*URL: https://tonsky.me/blog/js-bloat/?utm_source=tldrwebdev*

Even simple sites are shipping many MB of JavaScript to run the page. That's crazy!

#### Big Tech's Playbook for Swallowing AI

*URL: https://www.theverge.com/2024/7/1/24190060/amazon-adept-ai-acquisition-playbook-microsoft-inflection*

Big Tech companies are no longer able to high as they once did. Acquihires are becoming more common. An acquihire is where a startup is gutted for its people and left for dead. The new verison is a reverse acquihire where the people are hired and a licensing deal disguises what is actually an acquisition.

#### Why Copiolts and chatbots are bad for web dev

*URL: https://www.baldurbjarnason.com/2024/new-web-dev/?utm_source=tldrwebdev*

- Gmail was the exemplar that defined the ajax paradigm of thinking about web development.
- Facebook was the exemplar that defined the React and Component paradigm of web app development.

A paradigm is work done in the field.

React apps tend to be disproportionately complex. This stems from a thick abstraction layer over the base browser platform.

Maybe more plain JS and CSS will be coming.

#### Planning a week as a dev

*URL: https://read.highgrowthengineer.com/p/how-i-plan-my-week-as-a-senior-engineer?r=2bjtip&utm_source=tldrwebdev*

"I spend about 1 hour planning and reflecting. This plan makes me 25% more efficient for the other 39 hours in the week. That 25% efficiency saves me from 10 hours of misused time—more than a full day of work."

---